# canarycage v5.0.0 Release Notes

## description

Released at 2026/02/16 by [@keroxp](https://github.com/keroxp)

This is the fifth major release since the first release in 2018.

Canarycage v5 introduces a brand-new, powerful command `cage audit` that finds CVEs inside containers running in an ECS service.


## cage audit command

In short, `cage audit` is like `npm audit`. It does:

- Scan a specified ECS service in a cluster.
- Collect container image identifiers (tag, digest) described in Task Definition.
- Query ECR for vulnerabilities.
- Print the results in the CLI.

It's simple, but ECS users haven't had an equivalent feature.

### Usage

```bash
$ cage audit --region us-east-1 --cluster default --service my-service
```

where `./.deploy/service` is a directory containing `service.json` with `cluster` and `serviceName` fields defined.

```bash
$ cage audit --region us-east-1 ./.deploy/service
```

The `--json` option generates structured audit results.

```bash
$ cage audit --region us-east-1 --cluster default --service my-service --json
```

```bash
$ cage audit --region us-east-1 --json ./.deploy/service
```

### Github Actions

- https://github.com/loilo-inc/actions-audit-cage

## misc changes

- Version number format has been changed to include `v` (4.3.1 to v5.0.0).
  - This aligns with Go module version rules.
- `github.com/apex/log` is now retired.
- `golang.org/x/xerrors` is now retired.
- Added `--no-color` global option.

## breaking changes
### Newer version detection of upgrade command

- Canarycage's version number format has changed to include `v` prefix.
- Older cage binaries cannot detect newer releases with the `v` prefix.
- Reinstall canarycage using: `go install github.com/loilo-inc/canarycage/cli/cage@v5.0.0`

## project structure changes

- Most CLI-related code is now placed inside `cli/cage/`

